apps/web/README.md, before:

# <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b8249113-d515-4c91-a12a-f134813614e8" height="60" valign="middle" alt="Safe{Wallet}" style="background: #fff; padding: 20px; margin: 0 -20px" />

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/blob/main/LICENSE)
![Tests](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/test.yml?branch=main&label=tests)
![GitHub package.json version (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)
[![GitPOAP Badge](https://public-api.gitpoap.io/v1/repo/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/badge)](https://www.gitpoap.io/gh/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)

# Safe{Wallet} web app

This project is now part of the **@safe-global/safe-wallet** monorepo! The monorepo setup allows centralized management
of multiple
applications and shared libraries. This workspace (`apps/web`) is the frontend of the Safe{Wallet} web app.

Safe{Wallet} is a smart contract wallet for Ethereum and other EVM chains. Based on Gnosis Safe multisig contracts.

You can run commands for this workspace in two ways:

1. **From the root of the monorepo using `yarn workspace` commands**
2. **From within the `apps/web` directory**

## Prerequisites

Except for the main monorepo prerequisites, no additional prerequisites are required for this workspace.

## Setup the Project

1. Install all dependencies from the **root of the monorepo**:

```bash
yarn install
```

## Contributing

Contributions, be it a bug report or a pull request, are very welcome. Please check
our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) beforehand.

## Getting started with local development

### Environment variables

Create a `.env` file with environment variables. You can use the `.env.example` file as a reference.

Here's the list of all the environment variables:

| Env variable                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_NAME`                     | The name of the app, defaults to "Wallet fork"                                                                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_LOGO`                     | The URL of the app logo displayed in the header                                                                                                                         |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_INFURA_TOKEN`                   | [Infura](https://docs.infura.io/infura/networks/ethereum/how-to/secure-a-project/project-id) RPC API token                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_APPS_INFURA_TOKEN`         | Infura token for Safe Apps, falls back to `NEXT_PUBLIC_INFURA_TOKEN`                                                                                                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_PRODUCTION`                  | Set to `true` to build a minified production app                                                                                                                        |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GATEWAY_URL_PRODUCTION`         | The base URL for the [Safe Client Gateway](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-client-gateway)                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GATEWAY_URL_STAGING`            | The base CGW URL on staging                                                                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_VERSION`                   | The latest version of the Safe contract, defaults to 1.4.1                                                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_WC_PROJECT_ID`                  | [WalletConnect v2](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/cloud/relay) project ID                                                                                           |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_ORG_NAME`              | [Tenderly](https://tenderly.co) org name for Transaction Simulation                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_PROJECT_NAME`          | Tenderly project name                                                                                                                                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_SIMULATE_ENDPOINT_URL` | Tenderly simulation URL                                                                                                                                                 |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BEAMER_ID`                      | [Beamer](https://www.getbeamer.com) is a news feed for in-app announcements                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_PROD_GA_TRACKING_ID`            | Prod GA property id                                                                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEST_GA_TRACKING_ID`            | Test GA property id                                                                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_APPS_GA_TRACKING_ID`       | Safe Apps GA property id                                                                                                                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN`                     | [Sentry](https://sentry.io) id for tracking runtime errors                                                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_OFFICIAL_HOST`               | Whether it's the official distribution of the app, or a fork; has legal implications. Set to true only if you also update the legal pages like Imprint and Terms of use |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_REDEFINE_API`                   | Redefine API base URL                                                                                                                                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_OPTIONS_PRODUCTION`    | Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) `initializeApp` options on production                                                                                                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY_PRODUCTION`  | FCM vapid key on production                                                                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_OPTIONS_STAGING`       | FCM `initializeApp` options on staging                                                                                                                                  |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY_STAGING`     | FCM vapid key on staging                                                                                                                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SPINDL_SDK_KEY`                 | [Spindl](http://spindl.xyz) SDK key                                                                                                                                     |

If you don't provide some of the variables, the corresponding features will be disabled in the UI.

### Running the app locally

From the root of the monorepo:

```bash
yarn workspace @safe-global/web start
```

Or directly from the `apps/web` directory:

```bash
yarn start
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the app.

> [!NOTE]
>
> From now on for brevity we will only show the command to run from the root of the monorepo. You can always run the command from the `apps/web` directory you just need to omit the `workspace @safe-global/web`.

## Lint

ESLint:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web lint --fix
```

Prettier:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web prettier
```

## Tests

Unit tests:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web test --watch
```

### Cypress tests

Build a static site:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web build
```

Serve the static files:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web serve
```

Launch the Cypress UI:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web cypress:open
```

You can then choose which e2e tests to run.
Some tests will require signer private keys, please include them in your .env file

## Component template

To create a new component from a template:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web cmp MyNewComponent
```

## Pre-push hooks

This repo has a pre-push hook that runs the linter (always) and the tests (if the `RUN_TESTS_ON_PUSH` env variable is
set to true)
before pushing. If you want to skip the hooks, you can use the `--no-verify` flag.

## Frameworks

This app is built using the following frameworks:

- [Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk)
- [Safe Gateway SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-gateway-typescript-sdk)
- Next.js
- React
- Redux
- MUI
- ethers.js
- web3-onboard

Commit message:

feat(env var): allow for control over the default chainid (#5029)

apps/web/README.md, after:

# <img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b8249113-d515-4c91-a12a-f134813614e8" height="60" valign="middle" alt="Safe{Wallet}" style="background: #fff; padding: 20px; margin: 0 -20px" />

[![License](https://img.shields.io/github/license/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/blob/main/LICENSE)
![Tests](https://img.shields.io/github/actions/workflow/status/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/test.yml?branch=main&label=tests)
![GitHub package.json version (branch)](https://img.shields.io/github/package-json/v/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)
[![GitPOAP Badge](https://public-api.gitpoap.io/v1/repo/safe-global/safe-wallet-web/badge)](https://www.gitpoap.io/gh/safe-global/safe-wallet-web)

# Safe{Wallet} web app

This project is now part of the **@safe-global/safe-wallet** monorepo! The monorepo setup allows centralized management
of multiple
applications and shared libraries. This workspace (`apps/web`) is the frontend of the Safe{Wallet} web app.

Safe{Wallet} is a smart contract wallet for Ethereum and other EVM chains. Based on Gnosis Safe multisig contracts.

You can run commands for this workspace in two ways:

1. **From the root of the monorepo using `yarn workspace` commands**
2. **From within the `apps/web` directory**

## Prerequisites

Except for the main monorepo prerequisites, no additional prerequisites are required for this workspace.

## Setup the Project

1. Install all dependencies from the **root of the monorepo**:

```bash
yarn install
```

## Contributing

Contributions, be it a bug report or a pull request, are very welcome. Please check
our [contribution guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) beforehand.

## Getting started with local development

### Environment variables

Create a `.env` file with environment variables. You can use the `.env.example` file as a reference.

Here's the list of all the environment variables:

| Env variable                                 | Description                                                                                                                                                             |
| -------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_NAME`                     | The name of the app, defaults to "Wallet fork"                                                                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BRAND_LOGO`                     | The URL of the app logo displayed in the header                                                                                                                         |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_INFURA_TOKEN`                   | [Infura](https://docs.infura.io/infura/networks/ethereum/how-to/secure-a-project/project-id) RPC API token                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_APPS_INFURA_TOKEN`         | Infura token for Safe Apps, falls back to `NEXT_PUBLIC_INFURA_TOKEN`                                                                                                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_PRODUCTION`                  | Set to `true` to build a minified production app                                                                                                                        |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_TESTNET_CHAIN_ID`       | The default chain ID used when `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_PRODUCTION` is set to `false`. Defaults to 11155111 (sepolia)                                                            |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_DEFAULT_MAINNET_CHAIN_ID`       | The default chain ID used when `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_PRODUCTION` is set to `true`. Defaults to 1 (mainnet)                                                                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GATEWAY_URL_PRODUCTION`         | The base URL for the [Safe Client Gateway](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-client-gateway)                                                                          |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_GATEWAY_URL_STAGING`            | The base CGW URL on staging                                                                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_VERSION`                   | The latest version of the Safe contract, defaults to 1.4.1                                                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_WC_PROJECT_ID`                  | [WalletConnect v2](https://docs.walletconnect.com/2.0/cloud/relay) project ID                                                                                           |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_ORG_NAME`              | [Tenderly](https://tenderly.co) org name for Transaction Simulation                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_PROJECT_NAME`          | Tenderly project name                                                                                                                                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TENDERLY_SIMULATE_ENDPOINT_URL` | Tenderly simulation URL                                                                                                                                                 |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_BEAMER_ID`                      | [Beamer](https://www.getbeamer.com) is a news feed for in-app announcements                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_PROD_GA_TRACKING_ID`            | Prod GA property id                                                                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_TEST_GA_TRACKING_ID`            | Test GA property id                                                                                                                                                     |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SAFE_APPS_GA_TRACKING_ID`       | Safe Apps GA property id                                                                                                                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SENTRY_DSN`                     | [Sentry](https://sentry.io) id for tracking runtime errors                                                                                                              |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_IS_OFFICIAL_HOST`               | Whether it's the official distribution of the app, or a fork; has legal implications. Set to true only if you also update the legal pages like Imprint and Terms of use |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_REDEFINE_API`                   | Redefine API base URL                                                                                                                                                   |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_OPTIONS_PRODUCTION`    | Firebase Cloud Messaging (FCM) `initializeApp` options on production                                                                                                    |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY_PRODUCTION`  | FCM vapid key on production                                                                                                                                             |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_OPTIONS_STAGING`       | FCM `initializeApp` options on staging                                                                                                                                  |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_FIREBASE_VAPID_KEY_STAGING`     | FCM vapid key on staging                                                                                                                                                |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SPINDL_SDK_KEY`                 | [Spindl](http://spindl.xyz) SDK key                                                                                                                                     |

If you don't provide some of the variables, the corresponding features will be disabled in the UI.

### Running the app locally

From the root of the monorepo:

```bash
yarn workspace @safe-global/web start
```

Or directly from the `apps/web` directory:

```bash
yarn start
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the app.

> [!NOTE]
>
> From now on for brevity we will only show the command to run from the root of the monorepo. You can always run the command from the `apps/web` directory you just need to omit the `workspace @safe-global/web`.

## Lint

ESLint:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web lint --fix
```

Prettier:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web prettier
```

## Tests

Unit tests:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web test --watch
```

### Cypress tests

Build a static site:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web build
```

Serve the static files:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web serve
```

Launch the Cypress UI:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web cypress:open
```

You can then choose which e2e tests to run.
Some tests will require signer private keys, please include them in your .env file

## Component template

To create a new component from a template:

```
yarn workspace @safe-global/web cmp MyNewComponent
```

## Pre-push hooks

This repo has a pre-push hook that runs the linter (always) and the tests (if the `RUN_TESTS_ON_PUSH` env variable is
set to true)
before pushing. If you want to skip the hooks, you can use the `--no-verify` flag.

## Frameworks

This app is built using the following frameworks:

- [Safe Core SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-core-sdk)
- [Safe Gateway SDK](https://github.com/safe-global/safe-gateway-typescript-sdk)
- Next.js
- React
- Redux
- MUI
- ethers.js
- web3-onboard
